# MDPI Open Peer Review Corpus 2


Section for Logic & Cognitive Science, Institute of Philosophy and Sociology, Polish Academy of Science
Cognitive Metascience Lab


Generated by Ksawery Jasieński, with some input from Remigiusz Depta, under supervision of Marcin Miłkowski (2022-2023)

---

MDPI is committed to open peer review idea, but these are voluntary. They are not available for download in a single package, so they must be crawled from their website.

This dataset contains all peer reviews available on mdpi.com as of January 2023, covering over 135 thousand papers. These are in plaintext format (look for TXT files). In addition, the corpus contains metadata in JSON format for particular reviews, author responses as well as original paper metadata. For reference see the JSON `schema` files available in the GitHub repository associated with this project.

Additionally, this dataset contains the source HTML for each website from which the text of reviews was extracted, as well as any supplementary materials attached with the reviews. The original files were not enriched with any linguistic annotation or converted to any format (these are predominantly PDF and DOCX files, as uploaded through the MDPI editorial system by authors reviewers).

#### The structure of the dataset

You will find three folder in the corpus dataset. These are:  
- `review_crawler` - the source code of the crawler,
- `reviewed_articles` - the review corpus,
- `schema` - JSON schemas for metadata files (articles and reviews).

The subfolder `reviewed_articles` contains a very large number of subfolders (traversing this folder may require efficient programmatic access to your operating system's file system to be efficient), whose name conventions are as follows:

`<title_abbreviation><short_doi>.<file_type><round>.<file_extension>`

- `<title_abbreviation>` - a short abbreviation of the journal title,
- `<short_doi>` - the numbers in the DOI used by the MDPI, without their prefix,
- `<file_type>` - can be 'r' for reviews, 'a' for author responses, 's' for supplementary materials,
- `<round>` - review round (1, 2, …),
- `<file_extension>` - txt, html, docx or pdf (for supplementary materials).

The corpus files are found in particular subfolder. Each subfolder features metadata in `metadata.json` file and the subfolder `sub-articles`, which contains corpus files with metadata included in separate standoff JSON files whose names follow the naming convention for corpus files, but with the `.json` extension. 

We are making source code available for the dedicated crawler that was built to scrape the MDPI database. See the GitHub link below:
- https://github.com/cognitive-metascience/review_crawler/tree/main/crawling

---

This dataset is split into parts because of the upload limits of this repository. The archives are available in ZIP (33 parts, look for `.z[01-33]` files) and 7z (23 parts) formats. In addition, we provide the set of excluded articles with incomplete information (e.g., missing some reviews in the first round etc.) in the `mdpi-dump-dir.zip` file.

> The dataset after unpacking is a little over 170 GB in size.

The files are being made available under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

<!-- this section removed because RepOD doesn't allow links in dataset descriptions
#### Other datasets by the Cognitive Metascience Lab
- [eLife Open Peer Review Corpus](https://repod.icm.edu.pl/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.18150/FKPEQN)
- [PLOS Open Peer Review Corpus](https://repod.icm.edu.pl/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.18150/KZHVGE) -->


## Changelog

### v2.1 - current - (date of publication)

- no new reviews added
- re-scraped (June 2023) the reviews that had some sections of text missing
- dataset now also includes the source HTML from mdpi.com for each reviewed article. The webpage content was cleaned before storing to a HTML file: specifically, all comments are removed from the document, as well as the following tags: 'script', 'style', 'noscript', 'link', 'rect'.

### v2.0 - published 14th March 2023

- first submission of this dataset
- reviews was scraped in early January 2023
- dataset contains metadata for 13562 peer-reviewed articles from the MDPI database, along with full plain text for each review and any supplementary materials that were attached (PDF or DOC files containing e.g. author responses to comments)

